moving on to the next topic knowledge
representation so what is knowledge
representation
well it's essentially anything that has
to do with storing semantic information
and being able to reason about it so one
of the important concepts in knowledge
representation is the idea of an
ontology so the ontology may be for
example the relation between different
objects which object is a type of
another object so for example a table is
a type of furniture and a furniture is a
type of object so in knowledge
representation we have to deal with
categories and objects those are very
different things the category is a set
of objects and categories can be nested
in one another whereas objects cannot be
nested one another but objects can be
part of categories the other thing that
we want to present is events times and
beliefs so let's look at some examples
objects an example of an object can be
marked in the cat category may be cat
and an ontology may have the following
levels a Mamo category that includes the
categories cats dogs and whales in cat
can include its own sub categories for
example Persian cat or Manx cat now we
can define two relations that is our
relation which is between an object and
a category so we can say that Martin is
a cat so Martin is an object cat is a
category and you can also define
regulation AKO which stands for a kind
of which is defined between two
different categories so we can say that
position cat as a category is a kind of
cat the other relations that can be
defined for example has R which is also
known as a marijuana me relation for
example has a cat tail that means that
all objects in the category cat have
tails now let's look at the semantics of
first-order logic
so first-order logic sentences can be
assigned a value of two and four so I
can say Milo is a cat this sentence is -
Milo is younger than Martin I can say it
in the following way age of Milo age of
Martin and then connect those two with
the last and symbol
and this entire predicate has the value
of 2 whenever Milo is younger than
Martin and I can also say that the age
of Milo is not equal to the age of
Martin in this case ok now let's look at
some examples with quantifiers suppose
it we want to represent a statement all
cats eat fish one way to do this is to
say for Oh X if X is a cat that implies
X eats fish we can also want to
represent events suppose it we want to
represent a statement at Martin 8 we
have to figure out how to do this but we
also want to present the statement
Martin ate in the morning
Martin ate fish Martin ate fish in the
morning and so on so one possible
representation is to present each of
those sentences completely independently
of each of the other ones so we can do
this in first order logic we can define
a predicate called eating 1 which is the
first species of eating events and we
have eating 1 with one argument which
namely is the eater so every time that
we know that somebody ate we can
represent that fact as an eating
predicate with that person's name of
object's name and is the first argument
now suppose it won't represent the fact
that Martin ate in the morning
we cannot use the same predicate eating
one because that one only has an era T
of 1 that means it has only one argument
we're not have to define a new predicate
eating 2 where 2 is not actually the
number of argue is just the second
version of the eating predicate and this
particular version takes two arguments
where the first argument is the eater
and the second argument is the time of
the eating if we want to represent the
third sentence marking ate fish we have
to define a third predicate which also
has two arguments but then they're
different from the previous two the
first one is still the same the person
or object doing the eating but the
second one is the object being eaten
now if 100 percent the full sentence we
have to define a fourth predicate eating
for which now has three arguments there
etern eaten and the time so now it's
very difficult to these
with this kind of predicate first of all
because there's an infinite number of
such predicates even for the same type
of event and second because we want
somehow to be able to represent them
more compactly so one way to do this is
by using the so-called meaning
postulates so emini postulate is
something like this we can have a
statement in our knowledge base that
says whenever we have an instance of
eating for with the arguments XY and Z
that implies that we also have a
statement eating 3 with arguments X and
y so we're skipping argument Z and
eating four with arguments x y and z
implies eating 2 with arguments X and Z
and also eating four X Y Z implies
eating one with argument X so this is a
partial solution to the problem but it's
still not going to be a very nice one
because we are going to have a large
number of meaning postulates and their
interpretations can get in each other's
way so there's a second possible
interpretation so the way it works is
this suppose that we have the eating for
predicate with the arguments XY and Z we
can just say that we always have to
represent all eating events as instances
of eating four and just need some of the
arguments unspecified so if we have just
eating one we are going to say that y&z
are unspecified well this seems to work
but it has problems first of all there
are too many commitments that we have to
make because we cannot know the values
of all the different arguments it's very
difficult to combine eating for where
argument Z is missing and eating for
word argument Y is missing so we cannot
combine those two into an eating for
instance with both fish and mourning
specified so we're going to go to a
third possible representation that is
the one where we represent eating as an
event as a special object so this
process is called unification and this
is an example of how we can do it we can
define an event e where e is an instance
of a category called eating event and
then there's an eater for event E the
- his name is Martin and eat an argument
for event II is the fish so now let's
look at ways to represent time here's an
example we want to be able to say Martin
went from the kitchen to the yard so one
possible way to do this is to say there
is an event e where e is an instance of
a going event going takes the arguments
AG or an origin and a target the goer in
this case is Martin the origin of E is
kitchen and the target is yard
however this representation doesn't take
into account anything about time we
cannot say that for example we went from
the kitchen to the yard in that
particular order so this representation
doesn't give us any information whether
the sentence is in the present or in the
past or in the future so let me
introduce now an important term in
semantics called the fluent so fluent is
a predicate that is - at a given time so
for example if I have the predicate T it
can be - a time little T so here's now a
slide that shows you how to represent
different relations between tempo events
so two events are said to meet if the
endpoint of an event coincides with the
starting point of another event before
is defined when the endpoint of an event
is before but not equal to the starting
point of another event during is when
the start point of an event is after the
stop point of another event and its
endpoint is before the endpoint of that
other event and similarly we can define
overlap that's when the starting point
of the first event is before the
starting point of the second event and
endpoint of the first event is before
the endpoint of the other event and you
can see that overlap it can be defined
asymmetrically between I and J it's
possible that I overlaps with J in this
definition but J doesn't overlap with I
starts is when two events start at the
same time finishes is when they end at
the same time and equals is when they
both start and finish each other so this
is an example for McGrath's or Norvik
and one more issue related to knowledge
representation is the support that I can
back in theory of time which takes into
account three different points in time
the point of the event the point of the
utterance and the point of reference so
if we want to represent a sentence I had
eaten we want to say that the Terrell's
is done now that's the you point this is
a reference point in the past and there
is an event that is even further in the
past so I had eaten as the event time
this happens before the reference point
which happens before their turns so
simple past I ate is when the reference
point and the event time are the same
and they both occur before the utterance
now present perfect is I have eaten
that's when the event is in the past but
the reference point is in the present
and coincides with the utterance time
the present time is when all of the
three utterance reference point and
event are the same and now we have two
instances of future tenses simple future
is when the reference point is equal to
the trans time which is now but the
event happens in the future and finally
we have Future Perfect
that's when utterance is now there is a
reference point in the future but the
event happens somewhere between now and
the reference point so this is an
example from Jurassic and Martin so the
final thing that we want to get present
is beliefs let's look at an example I
want to say that my Loeb believes that
Martin ate fish so one possible
representation is to say that there are
two events one event named e which is an
instance of eating and another event
called B which is an instance of
believing and then we can have an entire
first order representation is re eating
and eater of E is marked in the eaten of
East fish and then you have some
information about the believing event B
is an instance of a believing event the
believer of B is Milo and belief takes
as its second argument an object of type
eating so the second argument of
believed is E the event of eating
so what polym of this representation is
the following in first order logic if
you have conjunction of multiple
statements the Tools Valley
you doesn't change if you drop some of
them so if you drop some of the terms
above you can infer that Martin ate fish
which is not correct because we don't
know for sure if Martin ate fish we only
know that Milo believes that Martin ate
fish so the presenting beliefs in this
kind of first order logic format is just
not going to work because of this power
so what people do instead
and again you can look at this in more
detail if you take a course in
philosophy logic is to use something
called modal logic so modal logic it
allows you to represent higher-order
operators for possibility time and
beliefs so this concludes the section on
knowledge representation